# signing-webapp

This is a web application for signing media files with C2PA manifests. It allows users to upload media files, create C2PA manifests, and sign the media with the manifest information to ensure authenticity and provenance.

### Development

To run the development server for the verification web application, use the following command:

```bash
  nx serve signing-webapp
```

### Building

```bash
  nx build signing-webapp
```

## Usage

Adding a C2PA manifests to a media file involves several steps, we've tried to make this process as straightforward as possible in the signing tool. Below are the steps to sign a media file using the signing tool.

### Uploading keys used for signing the manifest

To sign a media file with a C2PA manifest, you're **required** to upload a leaf certificate with its corresponding private key. Furthermore, the intermediate certificate can be uploaded which can be used to create a certificate chain, which is required for the manifest signing process. The signing tool provides fields to upload the private key, the certificate, and the intermediate certificate.

For a basic understanding of the certificates and their purpose, see https://support.mozilla.org/en-US/kb/secure-website-certificate.

#### Generate a certificate chain

Using the [cert-generator](../../tools/cert-generator/README.md) tool, you can generate a certificate chain for the signing tool to use.

#### Signing a media file

Upload the certificates and keys generated by the `cert-generator` tool. This will allow the signing tool to sign media files with a C2PA manifest.

#### Verifying the media file using the verify-webapp

[See the instructions](../verify-webapp/README.md) on how to configure the trust-list in the verify-webapp to include the certificate used for signing, and how to verify the authenticity of the media file using the verify-webapp.

### Testing DID verification locally (CAWG Digital Identity)

The signing tool gives the option to use the "Lokale ontwikkeling" as the provider for the DID verification. This will use the `did:web:[host+port of the verify-webapp]` format, which for example will result in `did:web:localhost%3A4200`. This in turn will be converted by DID resolvers into https://localhost:4200/.well-known/did.json.

#### Generate a DID document

Using the [did-generator](../../tools/did-generator/README.md) tool, you can generate a DID document for the signing tool to use. The generated DID document (`did.json`) should be placed in the `apps/signing-webapp/public/.well-known` folder.

#### Serve the signing tool with the `--ssl` flag:

The DID resolvers always resolves the issuer into a URL with HTTPS. Thus, you're required to serve the dev server using angular's `--ssl` flag. This will result in a browser warning, which you can skip. This could be solved by setting up [mkcert](https://github.com/filosottile/mkcert), the setup of which won't be explained here.

```bash
  nx serve signing-webapp --ssl
```

#### Verify the DID document

To verify that the DID document is correctly served, you can navigate to https://localhost:4400/.well-known/did.json in your browser. You should see the contents of the `did.json` file that you generated earlier. If you see this, the signing tool should be able to use the DID document for verification.

#### Signing a media file

1. In the "Privésleutel van Digitale Identiteit" field, upload the private key generated by the `did-generator` tool to the signing tool. This will allow the signing tool to sign media files using the corresponding DID document for verification.
2. In the "Uitgever van Digitale Identiteit" field, make sure to select "Lokale ontwikkeling" as the provider for the DID verification. This will ensure that the signing tool uses the DID document you generated for verification.

#### Verify the media file using the verify-webapp

After signing the media file with the signing tool, you can verify the authenticity of the media file using the verify-webapp. **Make sure you keep the signing-webapp running, as this serves your DID document used for verification.**
